Internet in plain English
=========================

You open up your web browser and point it to an address.  The browser does some
magic and in a matter of seconds, you are looking at the page that you
requested.  In that second or two, a lot of things happened and that's what
this chapter will focus on at a high level.

When you ask the browser to show you a website, it will connect to the Internet
and try to find that website.  It will use the URL that you typed in to try and
see where that website might be located.  Using something called DNS, it will
find a server where the website is stored and ask it for some content.  A
server is just a big computer without a monitor that is locked away somewhere
with other servers.  Your browser will say something like, "I want you to show
me this YouTube video.".  The server will take that humble request, do some
crunching for a while and then eventually come back to your browser and say,
"Here you go.".  The browser gets back what's called an HTML document. An HTML
document is what describes how the web page is structured, what it looks like,
etc; and browsers are really good at reading HTML documents.  When a browser
asks the server for content, we call that a *request*.  When the server replies
to the browser, we call that a *response*.

HTML is the basic language of the Internet.  It describes the elements that you
see on the page.  It tells the browser to display a heading like a heading, or
a box like a box, or where to go to look for an image.

If you want to get your feet wet in web developmnet, you should probably learn
HTML first.  It's really important to get a good understanding of HTML before
diving into other web-related technologies because everything revolves around
it.
